Adding docs for basic code intelligence (#7516)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: doc/user/code_intelligence/basic_code_intelligence.md

# Basic code intelligence

Sourcegraph comes with out of the box code intelligence provided by search-based heuristics.

## How does it work?

[Basic code intelligence](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph-basic-code-intel) implements the 3 main code intelligence features:

- Jump to definition: it performs a [symbol search](../search/index#symbol-search)
- Hover documentation: it first finds the definition then extracts documentation from comments near the definition
- Find references: it performs a case-sensitive word-boundary cross-repository [plain text search](../search/index#powerful-flexible-queries) for the given symbol

Basic code intelligence also filters results by file extension and by imports at the top of the file for some languages.

## Why are my results sometimes incorrect?

This is because basic code intelligence uses search-based heuristics, rather than parsing the code into an AST. You will see incorrect results more often for tokens with common names (such as `Get`) than for tokens with more unique names simply because those tokens appear more often in the search index.

> If you would like to have precise results where you are 100% confident that the definition or reference you are navigating to is for the symbol you hovered, we recommend utilizing [LSIF]((./lsif.md)) for precise code intelligence.

Author: accidental double parens?
```suggestion
If you would like to have precise results where you are 100% confident that the definition or reference you are navigating to is for the symbol you hovered, we recommend utilizing [LSIF](./lsif.md) for precise code intelligence.
```

You may occasionally see results from basic code intelligence even when you have uploaded LSIF data. This can happen in the following scenarios:

- The nearest commit that has LSIF data is too far away from your current commit. [The limit is 100 commits](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/blob/e7803474dbac8021e93ae2af930269045aece079/lsif/src/shared/constants.ts#L25) ahead/behind.
- The current file doesn't exist in the nearest LSIF dump.

> - The _Find References_ panel will always include search-based results, but only after all of the precise results have been displayed.

Author: Could we also mention that it is only to supplement symbols that have a missing precise result? Something like...

```suggestion
- The _Find references_ panel will always include search-based results, but only after all of the precise results have been displayed. This ensures every symbol has code intelligence.
```

## What languages are supported?

Basic code intelligence supports all of the most popular programming languages. Check out the [programming language extensions](https://sourcegraph.com/extensions?query=category%3A%22Programming+languages%22).

> Are you using a language we don't support? [File a GitHub issue](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/new/choose) or [submit a PR](./todo_link_to_docs_for_adding_a_new_language).

Author: Not sure if you noticed this todo link - do we have any docs on how to add a language for basic code intel? If so, let's use that link. If not, let's document (Michael will also need these docs when he starts next week!).

Reviewer: cc @chrismwendt

Reviewer 2: Added a link to "how to add a new language" (depends on https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph-basic-code-intel/pull/185).

# Basic code intelligence

> Sourcegraph comes with out of the box code intelligence provided by search-based heuristics.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Sourcegraph comes with built-in code intelligence, provided by search-based heuristics.
```

## How does it work?

[Basic code intelligence](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph-basic-code-intel) implements the 3 main code intelligence features:

- Jump to definition: it performs a [symbol search](../search/index.md#symbol-search)
- Hover documentation: it first finds the definition then extracts documentation from comments near the definition
- Find references: it performs a case-sensitive word-boundary cross-repository [plain text search](../search/index.md#powerful-flexible-queries) for the given symbol

Basic code intelligence also filters results by file extension and by imports at the top of the file for some languages.

## Why are my results sometimes incorrect?

> This is because basic code intelligence uses search-based heuristics, rather than parsing the code into an AST. You will see incorrect results more often for tokens with common names (such as `Get`) than for tokens with more unique names simply because those tokens appear more often in the search index.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Basic code intelligence uses search-based heuristics, rather than parsing the code into an AST. You will see incorrect results more often for tokens with common names (such as `Get`) than for tokens with more unique names, simply because those tokens appear more often in the search index.
```

> If you would like to have precise results where you are 100% confident that the definition or reference you are navigating to is for the symbol you hovered, we recommend utilizing [LSIF](./lsif.md) for precise code intelligence.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Upgrading to precise code intelligence

We recommend customers upgrade to using precise code intelligence powered by [LSIF](./lsif.md) which uses a pre-computed index of symbols for fast and much more accurate code navigation.
```

You may occasionally see results from basic code intelligence even when you have uploaded LSIF data. This can happen in the following scenarios:

- The symbol has LSIF data, but it is defined in a repository which does not have LSIF data.
- The nearest commit that has LSIF data is too far away from your current commit. [The limit is 100 commits](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/blob/e7803474dbac8021e93ae2af930269045aece079/lsif/src/shared/constants.ts#L25) ahead/behind.
- The current file doesn't exist in the nearest LSIF dump or has been changed between the LSIF dump and the browsing commit.

> - The _Find references_ panel will always include search-based results, but only after all of the precise results have been displayed. This ensures every symbol has code intelligence.

Reviewer 3: I think this documentation belongs in the LSIF section, but should be linked to from here.

Author: Agree, and can also link back to this page.

Author: @efritz can you do this please? Thanks!

Reviewer: Styling concern: should I make icon this 1.25rem instead of 2rem? Not sure if we have custom css for that kind of thing in the doc site (or if we can do it in markdown).

<img width="691" alt="Screen Shot 2020-01-08 at 6 24 10 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/103087/72027307-1897fc00-3244-11ea-9c0c-0d5cdf64fbb5.png">

Reviewer 3: You can add custom styles for content to https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/blob/master/doc/_resources/assets/content.css and if you do, you need to cache bust by editing https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/blob/master/doc/_resources/templates/root.html#L9

Reviewer: Didn't need the style, just resized the SVG definition.

## What languages are supported?

> Basic code intelligence supports all of the most popular programming languages. Check out the [programming language extensions](https://sourcegraph.com/extensions?query=category%3A%22Programming+languages%22).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Support for [the most popular programming languages](https://sourcegraph.com/extensions?query=category%3A%22Programming+languages%22) comes built-in.
```
